January 4, 2026

"Lowres"

This was pretty clear from the beginning. I've always loved the voxelised effect on Aura for Laura https://youtu.be/scWtCz_RBJs?si=Pg7XY8s-mrMEj0Dy&t=217 with the SoopaDoopa logo. So I'd try to reproduce it, and use some kind of octree-ish rendering. Initally i thought of doing it all in-shader, with a 3D texture. Since i had already done the volumetric rendering example for threejs I downloaded it, and looked at how to render into a 3D texture for the animated shape. But it looks a bit convoluted still, so I decided to go with software and hope that it would be fast enough. It is for a perlin noise and an SDF torus. Other shapes that i tried are a bit too much.

So the idea is generate a nxnxn volume, fill it with data: 0 for empty, 1 for solid. Then take one level and generate a new level that is half of it on each dimension. If the 2x2x2 blocks from the first level are all solid, then the 1x1x1 on the new level is also solid, and then the original 8 are set to 0, so the new bigger cube will replace the 8 smaller cubes. Each level is rendered with its own InstancedMesh. The rest is pretty straightforward. I spent some time debuggin why some levels (the 4x4x4 level, for instance) wouldn't render, and looking at the pyramid of subsampling generation, until i remembered that instanced meshes and fustrum culling are always an issue. I also added a way to only draw the actually active cubes, in order to make the syncing of data to the GPU faster, and draw less "null" boxes. Not sure how much of an actual optimisation that is, didn't do any measuring.
