January 3, 2026

"Fibonacci sequence"

I started to look into how to integrate the fibonacci sequence in a 3d object: 3d shape, 3d surface. I thought about a 3d spiral, or making a torus using a shell-like shape for the revolution. I found this paper https://www.researchgate.net/publication/342344394_Origami_Fibonacci_Torus_and_Knot "Origami Fibonacci Torus and Knot", and this video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0icGwAeIWtU "The golden toroid and the infinite spiral". I implemented the infinite torus, but it didn't look too interesting. Then looking at the result (looked like a torus wrapped in string) i thought what if it was made of progressive layers of nested strands, following the fibonacci sequence. So i made a simple test to see how it would be generated using ExtrudeGeometry, and it looked promising.

Then i thought that it would be cool to render it with SSAO. For some years i've had a SSAO with MRT that works well for me, but the shading it implements is a very simple Half-lambertian with basic specular. I've wanted to use threejs MeshStandardMAterial for while, so i thought it was a good opportunity. I started going through the code, creating a ShaderMaterial with errors so i could dump the assembled shader and look at it, but it's just too much. Then I started using Gemini on AI Studio to identify the different parts and compose a relatively straightforward PBR render. The problem came with the reflections: long story short, i prefer equirectangular HDRs directly in the shader, but the model got confused betweeen this and the more traditional cube map. I spent a stupid amount of time seeing the model take in and out implementations using cube samplers and 2d samplers. Eventually i installed cursor, paid to use Opus, and after a while i got it to fix the environemnt mapping.

Then taking the previous day's generation of a bent shape and replacing the Bezier by a more simple arc of a torus (albeit with some displacement and twisting), and reworking the normal calculations, and some tinkering, i've got something that looks quite interesting, even though it doesn't really showcase the fibonacci sequence.
